docs/op: Add UidGidResolver documentation (#3324)
inspektor-gadget/inspektor-gadget: docs/reference/operators/uidgidresolver.mdx

---
title: UidGidResolver
sidebar_position: 10
---

# UidGidResolver

> The `UidGidResolver` data operator resolves `uid` and `gid` values to the corresponding username and groupname.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `UidGidResolver` data operator resolves `uid` and `gid` (user and group identifiers) values to the corresponding user and group names.
```

?

It does this by monitoring the `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/group` files on the host.

> This leads to the restrictions that user and groupnames inside the guest might not be correctly resolved.

Reviewer: What are those restrictions? When doesn't it work? I think it's important to document it.

Author: I added an example. WDYT?

Reviewer: Perhaps say that the event is always enriched with the user name in the host and that the container one isn't taken into consideration?

I think it can be something like:

> It does this by monitoring the `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/group` files on the host. It means the events are enriched with the user and group names from the host, so the ones for the container are ignored.

---
title: UidGidResolver
sidebar_position: 10
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# UidGidResolver

The `UidGidResolver` data operator resolves `uid` and `gid` values to the corresponding username and groupname.
It does this by monitoring the `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/group` files on the host.
This leads to the restrictions that user and groupnames inside the guest might not be correctly resolved.

## Usage

To use the `UidGidResolver` one has to use the `gadget_uid` and `gadget_gid` typedefs in the eBPF code and write the `uid` and `gid` values into it.

> Finally either of the following requirements has to be met:

Author: Makes sense, thanks!

1. The variablename has a `_raw` suffix.
   This leaves the `gadget.yaml` untouched.
2. There exists an `uidgidresolver.target` annotation in the `gadget.yaml`.
   This brings full flexibility and decouples the id variable name from the resolved name.

<Tabs groupId="env">
    <TabItem value="raw_suffix" label="_raw suffix">
        `eBPF`:
        ```c
        struct event {
            gadget_uid uid_raw;
            gadget_gid gid_raw;
            //...
        };
        ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="target" label="target annotation">
        `eBPF`:
        ```c
        struct event {
            gadget_uid uid;
            gadget_gid gid;
            //...
        };
        ```
        `gadget.yaml`:
        ```yaml
        datasources:
            my_gadget:
                fields:
                    uid:
                        annotations:
                            uidgidresolver.target: user
                    gid:
                        annotations:
                            uidgidresolver.target: group
        ```

>     </TabItem>

Author: What do you mean with group everything?

Regarding tabs or two headers under each other. For me either of these options is fine. We should just discuss this now, since this differentiation `raw/target` is used in other operators aswell
